[MUSIC]
So now that we've got all of the inserting
and updating covered.
What we have to cover now is obviously, to
retrieve data and also to delete it.
So to, re, to retrieve data what you have
to do is, use an execute.
And the command is called select, and
we're
going to select all, which is shown by
doing
an asterisk or a star which is Shift+8 and
then, you type from and then the table
name.
And our table is called person.
Now, because we've done that we don't
actually
need to commit because we're not changing
any data.
All we're doing is retrieving data.
But what, what we do need to do, is we do
need to first of all make that.
A variable so I'm going to call that
I'll just call that table for now, table
is equal to and then we're going to do
for each in table and going to print
each and when I run this, you'll see that
we get all of the data which
we stored earlier, which is Alexander,
Bowers, 17, multiple times.
So that now, what we can do, is retrieve
say if we only
wanted the first name, we can retrieve
just the first name.
There we've got Alexander, if I wanted the
second name
as well, then we could do first name and
second name.
So, we can do multiple different things,
we can select anything that we want, quite
often you'll use just the asterisk cuz
most of the data you store will be
will be what required for everything or
for most things,
however if you do only need one or two
different rows,
or fields rather, then just you can type
in the
names of the fields and it'll fetch only
those for you.
And also, this, this data here as
displayed
in the order as you type it so you
do second name, [SOUND] then first name
[SOUND] it
gets fetched back in that order, so the
reason
why the asterisk, it was fetched in the
other
order is because that's the order it is
set
up in the database in, we did the first
name, second name, and then age in our
database,
and that is the order in which it is
returned to us.
Now, there is one other thing in which we
can do, which,
allows us to have more flexibility with
the database, because this is going
fetched back the form of a [INAUDIBLE] and
we can't do as
much as if we fetched it back in the form
of a dictionary.
[SOUND] So, to do that you can just
put dict around each, [SOUND] and when
it's again.
Oh, sorry no, I've forgot something.
One thing that we do need to do, is,
activate
the row factory, which is a built in
[SOUND]
a function that's built into SQLite three.
And it allows us to, treat all of the
rows.
All of the database fetched back as being
a dictionary instead.
So, now that we get all of the parameters
added as well.
So all the keys and all of the values
added in the order in which we want them.
Now, you'll notice that the actual order
here is different.
You've got age first and then first
and second name, because, it's been
ordered alphabetically.
So, that is one of the differences, and
it's not really a major
difference, it doesn't allow you to do
anything other, anything
different really, in its basic form, but
it does allow us
to select data based on having [SOUND] the
the ability to set.
Based on, it being a dictionary rather
than a tuple.
So by adding square brackets in the name
of the field
in between we can now fetch the list of
the first names.
Which, well I'll enter a second name.
[SOUND] We can then do that as well.
So we can now, I have the ability to form
more functions upon the actual data in
which we're fetching.
And also, we now have the ability to oh
I'm sorry, I'm
not going to show you how you delete some
bit from the database.
So now that we've covered how to fetch it.
We can delete all of the excess there.
And we change this command to delete
[SOUND] from and in table languages
person.
And then we have to do a where clause
where.
[SOUND] And then it's the column name and
then what we want it to be equal to.
So, [SOUND] where, last at, my last name
which is actually called second name now.
Database, where second name is equal to
and I'll just put powers.
Now this will actually delete all of the
various research we have
at the moment and so, if I was to now,
[SOUND] commit that [SOUND]
and delete the variable name, we don't
need the variable there.
Now back to being committed if I was to
now select all the data,
from the database again, so select [SOUND]
all from person.
And then we need to just [SOUND] add
that variable back in and then you'll
see that all of the data has actually
been deleted from the table, so [SOUND]
when we run this, you'll see that we
get nothing printed back out.
And the reason for that is now
because everything actually matched before
when we had
the delete and so there's no reason
for anything to actually, be within the
database,
we've changed our, and so to show you
exactly what the delete can actually do,
I'm just going to insert some data into
the database and then I'll resume the
video.
So, as you can see, I've now inserted
four different rows, Alex, Alexander,
Jonathan, and John.
And these all have different ages and,
there is one thing which I didn't show you
with the select and that is you can also
put conditional clauses on that as well.
So, where age is greater than 18, we'll
now put this
down to just two people, Jonathan and John
Jonathan and John.
And so, for example if I wanted to delete
something where all ages were under
18 for, whatever reason, then we could
also do that as well, within the deletes.
So, I'll select Insert, so not insert,
select
and update and delete allow you to do a
where clause within that as well.
So now that we're printing each of these
from each
table, I'll show you that we've got full
data sets.
I'm going to delete the ones which are
under the age of 18.
So, if we change this now to be delete.
[SOUND] And we're going to delete from the
table which
is called person [SOUND] and we're going
to delete where age
is less than 18 [SOUND] and we need to
commit this
and then I'm going to show you what the
output is.
[SOUND] So again, we need to remove that
and
then do table is equal to db.execute.
I'm just gonna do select [SOUND] all from
person and now when we run this
again, you'll see that we only have three
different data sets.
The person who is under the age of 18.
Which was Alex Bowers, age 17.
That has now been deleted.
So, that is, how you delete, how you
insert.
And how you can control how you treat data
from I, from a database.
There's [UNKNOWN].
Thank you for watching, and I will see you
soon.
[MUSIC]